This is the third tape, I guess the fifth side of the Brodsky series of interviews, and we're talking with Bob Hamblin, who is now going to talk about some manuscript material, and this is the Western Union
Well, I pulled a folder here that has some Faulkner letters, and by chance it has the telegram that Faulkner sent to Sacks Cummings on the occasion of Albert Einstein's death.
This ties in with the story you heard earlier about Faulkner and Einstein.
And the telegram reads, Albert Einstein was one of the wisest of men and one of the gentlest of men.
Who can replace him in either, let alone in both?
Signed, Bill.
And that's dated April 20th, 1955.
This is from a folder of Cummings materials.
There's some handwritten letters here.
You might want to look through a few.
There are probably about 500 Faulkner letters in the collection.
Go ahead, don't mind me.
I'm just taking care of the necessary housekeeping.
A good number of those we've published in the, let's see, I need to double check that.
We published about 500 letters in volume two.
I think 125 of those were by Faulkner.
I think L.D.
estimates now there may be as many as 1,000 letters in the collection, and more than 200 of those are by Faulkner.
I just found it in my bag.
Do you like the English peppermints?
They're strong.
Thank you.
So we have letters.
I've pulled some manuscript material here.
One of my favorite manuscripts is Sepulcher South, an autobiographical essay that Faustman wrote.
And it starts out as a typescript, but then he was away from his typewriter, apparently, and on page four, he shifts to longhand, and then he continues the essay in longhand.
And there are a couple of versions.
Yes, indeed.
You could just tell me what I'm looking at.
This is an essay...
I'm trying to think of the famous photographer.
There was a photograph of a cemetery in Walker Evans.
And Faulkner had been shown this photograph of a Walker Evans view of a cemetery.
And maybe it was Cummins or someone at Random House said, why don't you write an essay about this photograph?
And the photograph, which was of St.
Peter's Cemetery in Oxford,
It brought back all of Faulkner's memories about the death of his grandfather and others in the family, the times he had gone to the cemetery, and this is a very fine essay.
What did he title the essay?
It's called Sepulchre South.
S-E-P.
He spells it S-E-P-U-L-C-H-U-R-E.
South.
Mm-hmm.
I think it was published with the T-U-R-E spelling, but... Where was it published?
It was... It's been collected in the uncollected stories.
It was published before that in... Maybe in Harper's.
That's okay.
No problem.
S-Light.
In and by.
In and by, that's his slash, in and by gaslight.
But they dropped the subtitle when they published it.
Which is kind of a neat thing to have, isn't it?
Right, right, right.
Separate your cell, 1101.
Help yourself to them.
Do you like these mints, by the way?
Yes, indeed.
You're good.
Help yourself to them.
My wife gets these for me by the crate.
That was published in Harper's Bazaar, December 1954, and then later collected in Blotner's edition of Uncollected Stories, Sepulchre South.
What was the date on again?
December 1954.
And how do they spell it in there?
S-E-P-U-L-T-U-R-E.
Which is interesting.
I wonder why they changed this from here.
Right.
Nice.
Another set of manuscripts in the collection is Requiem for a Nun, the play slash novel that Faulkner wrote for Ruth Ford.
And some of these, these are really the outtakes.
These were at Sacks Cummins' house.
Eldie acquired them from Cummins and from Dorothy.
I asked Ruth Ford once to account for the VIEW letterhead stationery.
Her brother, Charles Henry Ford, was editor of VIEW magazine, and Ruth didn't know how far from it came by this letterhead, probably at her apartment when he was there visiting.
He just picked up some sheets of it and may have even done some writing while he was there.
But he turned over the backside of the letterhead stationery and he wrote,
And these were the sections that were later revised, and so these would be outtakes.
We've studied this and published the materials.
I think there are portions of five different scenes here from the play or novel.
Which were never incorporated?
Most of them were, but in greatly revised form.
When you say outtakes, it's essentially material that he reworked, and then he laid these pages aside as he reworked them.
for the further version.
And some of this is typed.
Much of it is in longhand, different colors of ink, different... Some of the handwriting is fairly easy to read, fairly meticulous.
Other is quite sloppy.
It looks like he sat on his knee and wrote it.
But it's significant.
And he also had a lot of cut and paste that he did where he would just
sometimes clip out a passage and move it to another section of the manuscript.
Not having a word processor, he'd just use scissors and glue and move material from one place to another.
So there's a good bit of Requiem material here.
There's similar pages from a fable.
I guess I didn't pull those, but it's also material that he rejected, and he left a lot of that at Sacks Cummings' house in Princeton.
and Brodsky acquired it from Dorothy Cummings, the widow.
I think Brodsky's favorite manuscript, in fact, I'm positive of that, is this wash.
This is the folder that Faulkner kept it in.
This came from, at one time, this was at Rowanoak, Faulkner's home.
Like many of the materials in the collection, various people were given things by Faulkner or Estelle, and then after Faulkner's death,
different relatives went in and probably took things so they'd have something from Faulkner.
And so this is a manuscript of one of Faulkner's best short stories called Wash.
It was later incorporated into Absalom Absalom as a part of the novel, a chapter.
There's an early version.
Yeah, I think I have to handle this.
Yeah, this is the choice manuscript in the collection.
Wash, W-A-S-H, isn't it?
Okay.
This is pretty nice.
Now, have you had this treated at all?
No, no.
Do you think you want to stop that foxing, actually?
Right.
Yeah, there's a lot of that material, a lot of that work that has to be done, right?
Mm-hmm.
Do you have it on both sides?
No.
Not in this one, he didn't.
And this one has the... The paper clip?
Pages, they're numbered.
There's another version of that.
There's the rest of the paper clip.
See, this one has the two over one.
Mm-hmm.
These are...
Now this stuff that's crossed out, is that rejected?
That's the manuscript in progress as he went along.
But I mean, that's material that didn't make it into the... That's right.
In fact, none of this in this version made it up to the... You see, this is an early version.
This is an updated version.
Then he moved up to the typescript.
So he kept all his variants.
That's right.
You have three variants here.
And you finally got to the typescript.
This is Faulkner's typing, I'm pretty sure.
But none of these is the published version.
He continued to revise.
Faulkner revised right up through Galley.
And when he'd send the galleys back, he was still making revisions and so on.
That's why some of the so-called corrected editions of Faulkner's works that are being issued now, some of those are really quite questionable because
If you don't have all the variants and all the processes, the phases, you can't go back to Faulkner's manuscript.
And know which is which.
That's right.
And so when you start tampering with... There's nothing here to indicate this is the first draft or the second draft.
No.
In fact, that's an advanced draft.
We know that's farther along than this one.
And, of course, the typescript would presumably be farther along than this, and yet he continued to revise, and the published version is different from even the typescript.
Now, this is closer to the published version than this.
The published story has an altogether different opening, different beginning.
And so what you have here is an intermediate version of the short story.
Has this all been copied, I hope?
Yeah, and we published this now.
We have.
We transcribed it and published it in this.
Where has it been published?
In our volume five.
Or one place.
The Mississippi books?
Right, right.
Many of these manuscripts that you're seeing have been published now in our...
in our volumes.
That takes nothing away from the archival quality of the materials.
I don't think so, and with Faulkner reading his handwriting, there's a lot of guesswork involved, and so there's always the challenge of another scholar coming along and redoing it, rechecking your work.
You're never, it's never final.
There's no definitive version of Faulkner's handwriting.
I mean, transcribing it because somebody else looks at it
We try to be very meticulous about if we say illegible or we put a question mark if it's hard to read.
But there's a real challenge in reading his handwritten manuscripts.
Have you had many scholars come to use the materials?
We're getting.
Blopner has used the materials for his revised biography.
Oates used a good many of the materials for his biography.
He actually thanked L.D.
Carl.
Carl used his.
Joel Williamson, the historian from Chapel Hill, was here for three weeks this summer.
He's doing a book on Faulkner and race.
He spent three weeks here.
A month ago, we had a lady from Amsterdam who was here for a week.
She's doing her doctoral dissertation at the University of Amsterdam.
I've sent materials to Tokyo, Paris, that is copies, photographs.
No, Xerox copies.
Next week, I'm mailing to Gallimore, the French publisher, about 20...
photographs from the collection, reproductions.
They were doing a pictorial biography of Faulkner, and they wanted about 20 of the photographs from materials here.
Once we establish the Faulkner Center, we will be able to, right now it's on a kind of a one-by-one basis.
And there would be no Faulkner Center if you didn't have the Brodsky Collection?
No, no, no.
The Brodsky Collection is the Faulkner Center.
But I mean, obviously you're, for instance, looking for some
Any H money?
We've applied for a federal grant.
We've also applied for foundation support.
But even if we don't get the outside funding, we will begin renovation next door this summer to create a meeting room, office space, exhibit area.
We've got to decide if we want a door here to go into the center.
That might lessen security a little bit.
We may choose not to go.
And we lose some shelf space.
We may just go out the door here and down the hall and
But there's a little theater right there, and I see it's 200 people.
It's a lecture hall.
And we will take that space and renovate it into the Faulkner Center.
And then once we have secretarial help and staff and we get all this file in a way and have it copied, so we could have working copies.
Most scholars would not use the originals.
We'd use Xerox copies.
But we'll have the facility set up so that students and scholars can use the materials.
It's exciting, isn't it?
It really is.
And to me, that's sort of the culmination of the work, to see it evolve into a research center where people can come.
And we've let people do that for the last five years or so.
That is, use the collection, but it's always had to be on an individual basis.
We've had some graduate students occasionally use certain materials in the collection and some of the scholars that I mentioned.
We had a school teacher from New Hampshire who had a summer independent study from the National Endowment for the Humanities dealing with Faulkner in Hollywood and he came and spent about a week here and used the film script material.
The opportunities for scholarly use
Which, again, is part of the excitement for L.D.
He's moved beyond collecting now.
I would say he moved from collecting to publishing, and now the next phase is creating the Faulkner Center, the research center, and opening it up for other people to use the collection.
See, for the past ten years I've been the luckiest scholar in America.
Where is that?
Because I've had almost a monopoly.
working with LD, and this is, you know, we've been the only two people by and large in this room using these materials for five years.
He moved the materials here in 84.
And there's a little story I need to tell you about his looking at this room and all, too.
But we deposited the materials here in 84, though it remained in private ownership.
We just warehoused the materials for him.
And it made it easy.
For the first five years that I knew him, I drove back and forth to Farmington and St.
Louis.
I commuted about once a week to use the materials there.
And that was quite a hassle.
We did the first two or three books in that fashion.
This room was here.
It wasn't being used for anything.
It had all the empty shelves.
And one day, L.D.
was in here looking around.
And he said, boy, what a great room.
And I need something like this, he said, for the collection.
And I said, you know, here it is.
If you want to use it, we could arrange if you just want to store the materials here.
And so since 84, this is where we've done much of our work.
And yet, by and large, it's been him and me.
And other scholars have not had access to the material.
And so I've been very privileged, as I say, to have something almost like a monopoly on the material.
That's changing now as we create the center and make it available to other scholars.
Do you have a favorite among the majors?
The sepulcher I just showed you, I think, is my favorite of the
the stories or essays.
There are some cartoons, some yearbook cartoons that Faulkner did.
They didn't have enough money to complete the yearbook.
He was a 16-year-old high school student.
Yeah, in 1913.
And he did some cartoon drawings for the yearbook, which was never published, never printed.
And then he gave these cartoons to a high school classmate, maybe a sweetheart.
Her name was Myrtle Ramey.
There were 10 of these cartoons, and my favorite was the one, the Lincoln caricature.
This is Miss Ella Wright, Faulkner's history teacher at Oxford High School, at Oxford Graded School, it was called.
Here's Faulkner's signature without the U. Miss Ella Wright is grinding out demerits to this villain, Lincoln,
At his feet in miniature, you have the big Yankee bully armed with a knife picking on that little unarmed Confederate.
And the history teacher, this is the way she taught history from a Confederate point of view.
The caption says, them's my sentiments.
Wow.
Now, those were probably Faulkner's sentiments, too, you see, in 1913.
But by the 1940s, he was moving toward integration.
I'm just describing it.
Lincoln almost looks like an ape.
I mean, he has some simian qualities to it.
Now, Blotner, in his first edition, he had seen these before the days of Xerox.
He saw them when Murder Ramey had them, and Blotner calls that a likeness of Abraham Lincoln.
Wow.
He missed it.
The caricature and the criticism of Lincoln as the villain.
We have a Yankee with a knife, and we have a rib much smaller, and them, T-H-E-M apostrophe S, them's my sentiments.
Yes.
W. Falker, the F-A-L-K, and we're looking at the... I'll tell you, he and I have written across three years.
Now, as a, shall I say, liberated Southerner myself, you know, when Dr. King said, free at last, thank God Almighty we're free, he meant whites, too.
I mean, we miss that point sometimes.
He freed the white Southerner from prejudice, you know, and so...
I consider myself a kind of liberated southerner, and it's interesting to me to see how Faulkner made that progress.
Faulkner's early—there is some racism, if you want to call it that, in Faulkner's early work.
That is, his views of blacks are stereotypical, but he grew out of that.
Stone never did.
Stone remained a racist all of his life and quit talking to Faulkner, but this measures how far Faulkner had to come to get to be an integrationist in the 1950s.
Robert, where did I go with that coffee cup?
I see it.
I hid it there because they were photographing the other day, and they didn't want the coffee cup in the... I think there's a nice, gritty commensal there, if you'd like to find out.
Thanks.
I found my tender.
I was looking for them this morning.
Did that thing go in?
You know, that needs to be in a folder.
Those darn things, they did it.
I'm sure it did.
They what?
Yeah.
Those things need to get in a folder.
You know, in their own... Yeah, I mean, in their own glassine.
That's part of the work.
I was just talking with Bob Foster, and I told him, uh, I met Caleb.
Oh, did you?
Yeah, nice.
She was real keen on our work.
I'll be right back.
Don't forget he was just a kid of 16 here, too.
I mean, we're talking about a child.
This is juvenile.
That's right.
When L.D.
found these, they were in the daughter.
By that time, Myrtle Ramey was in a rest home, and her daughter had these materials, and he went there to get some inscribed books.
And she said, well, if you want to look through that box, I think there's some other materials there.
And so he literally rescued these things from probably the garbage dump because the woman who had them didn't understand the importance of the juvenilia.
She knew the books were significant.
And L.D.
brought back both three or four books signed by Faulkner to Myrtle Ramey, but he also brought back these ten cartoons.
Where did he get these from again?
The Daughter of Myrtle Ramey.
M-Y-R-T-L-E, Ramey, R-A-M-E-Y.
And by that time she was Demarest, D-E-M-A-R-E-S-T, her married name.
But she had been Myrtle Ramey, a classmate of Faulkner at the Oxford graded school, and maybe his sweetheart.
And he gave her these cartoons when they weren't used in the yearbook.
And then years later, L.D.
acquired them from the daughter, who really didn't know what she had.
And for a scholar to look at that cartoon and all that it says about Faulkner's attitude, the world he grew up in, I mean, that's what excites me.
That's much more exciting than three inscribed books to me.
That cartoon, for the scholar, is worth more than three inscribed books.
Can I take a picture of it?
Do you mind?
Sure.
I'm trying to draw a facsimile there.
It's kind of funny.
I mean, I have no idea.
You don't have any idea how they... He pulled out his favorite.
Yeah, he asked me what was my favorite, and I went for the Sepulcher South.
That's only because he's a Southerner.
Oh, that's right.
That's right.
Well, in Sepulcher South, the manuscript.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, and you know my little favorite manuscript?
I love that damn introduction to the Faulkner Reader.
Yeah.
About his grandfather's Catholic library, where he talks about it being a vegetable.
Did you show... You tell him about De Gaulle, because that's the manuscript of De Gaulle.
Did you show Nick those...
wash manuscripts?
Yeah, we do.
Oh, we did wash.
We did separate yourself.
Mind blower.
We've done the cartoons.
I tell you what, that came out of Faulkner's home.
Really?
Those were wonderful.
I don't want to get into that one.
I want to stay with you.
That's another part of it, too, that if you work like I worked, some things surface that are surreptitious, and they remain surreptitious for good reasons, but that's true with anything.
And it isn't that I have indulged in criminal activities.
It's just that if you want to make an anomaly, you have to break eggs.
Well, see, I was in Oxford when Faulkner died.
I was in Oxford, and there was nobody in the home.
Miss Dorothy Oldham was a sort of caretaker of the sister-in-law, and relatives had access to the home.
And what happened, I think, I mean, everybody, when somebody dies, people take things or divide them up, or relatives.
And who can say?
I mean, maybe they were given to them by Faulkner or Estelle.
I'm going to read you a... But in some cases, I think people just went into Rowanoak, relatives, you know, who had access to the building, and they just took something to have a souvenir.
And then later, 20 years later... The way people grab stuff out of Shakespeare's house, you know, I mean...
Let me tell you this story.
When Faulkner's library at Rowanoak was just out there open and they didn't have the rooms closed off or anything and they'd have the 200 people in the house and Faulkner's personal library was just there on the shelf.
And I wrote Jim Webb one time and asked him to check an inscription in a Faulkner book because Blotner had recorded it and it didn't make sense.
It was either an advanced review copy or Blotner had miscopied the date.
So I wrote Ole Miss and asked Jim Webb to
to check on the inscription the next time he was out at Rowanoak, and when he went out, he said, the book's not there.
And he said, maybe Jill took it, as we suspect, but anybody could have taken it.
In those days, you could go into Rowanoak, and they weren't very careful about... Talk to Mr. Nick about a little story that fits in with that one.
Oh, yes, that's one I have.
Every year at the Faulkner Conference, Evans Harrington, who is the director of the annual Faulkner Conference, leads people on the tour, and they go out to Faulkner's farm, and there's a little lodge out there where Faulkner did some writing and had some books, and Evans always tells this story every year.
He says, when I came out here in the 1950s, there were
three modern library editions.
He said, I remember there were two Hardy novels, and he said, Green Mansions was another.
And he said, they were here on the shelf.
I'm holding Green Mansions in my right hand.
And he said, then I came back a few years later, and the books were gone.
And he said, I don't know where they are.
And I told Evans one time, I said, I'll tell you where the books are.
I don't, you know, they're in the Brodsky collection.
But these books were out at Faulkner's Lodge at Greenfield Farm.
I'll tell you the rest of the story.
You tell the rest of the story.
What I'm holding, I just want for the record, I'm holding three small modern library editions of Faulkner's own signed copies of Green Mansions, Jude the Obscure, and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
Faulkner's personal reading copies.
Now, Faulkner's personal.
From whom did I get them?
I got them from Jim Silver.
The history professor.
Jim Silver had these three books because he got them at the farm.
Jim Silver told me that Estelle told him that he could have them.
I'm going to leave it like that, and you're not going to mess with that in that transcription.
Let's just say that occasionally there are things that we call creative provenance.
Listen, I'm going to shut this out just for a second.
Let me tell you a coda to these three books and to their provenance.
These books are not only significant because they funnel into the other books in this collection that I told you were actually
Faulkner's own personal copies.
These were his three, these were three of his favorite copies that he returned to quite often.
How favorite was Green Mansions in the story, The Bruch, am I not correct?
The character is sitting there in the chair reading his Modern Library copy of Green Mansions.
Now that story was written about the same time that William Faulkner's copy of the Modern Library was dated, Rowanoak 1931.
You see, he was installing his own library in his new home, which he just moved into in 1930, in either April or June, I don't remember.
But here was Faulkner signing the books he loved.
And here were these wonderful three books.
And when I got these from Jim, they weren't really expensive.
They were like, and he said, you set a price.
And I think I paid him like $500 a piece for these books.
You were being very fair.
I was, too, because he was thrilled.
Because a lot of people might think, wow.
You know what they cost him?
All it is is an autograph on a book that he didn't write, you know?
Well, that's right.
What they cost him.
That's right.
This is from Found Money, in other words.
Yeah, absolutely.
Let me read you.
Found Money is right.
Plenty of it he found for me.
He had one item that Malcolm Franklin gave him.
that I have not put it's the only item I didn't put of all of the things and it sits on my desk it sits beside my typewriter and every morning when I work I wind it up it's a pocket bend West Clocks pocket bend with a little black face and little iridescent numerals and hands and on the back of it with a nail he had inscribed W. Faulkner Ring Dove it had been the watch the pocket watch that he kept in the binnacle on his sailboat
the ring dove on Sardis Reservoir.
And I love it.
And my press is called Timeless Press.
And in The Sound and the Fury, when I told you I first attached to Faulkner, I attached to Faulkner through Quentin Compson.
And Quentin was absolutely obsessed with time.
And he had his grandfather's watch, was it not?
And it, he broke it finally.
It had no hands.
Anyway, let me read you one thing.
This is
How do you put a world-class collection like this together?
You do it with the help of an awful lot of people.
There is no one person like Carl Peterson or like L.D.
Brodsky who, buying from book dealers catalogs, if you did it for 50 years, could put a collection together like this.
Why?
The why is because you need to tap in to all kinds of mini collections that will ultimately create the large collection.
What do I mean by collections?
The people who owned a lot of the artifacts that I went to and acquired the materials from would never have thought of their holdings as a collection, but rather as accumulated things that they'd gotten over the years.
They weren't consciously collecting.
As an example, Phil Stone was not consciously collecting.
gathering and accumulating and saving the artifacts.
And souvenirs.
Souvenirs from years, from 30, 40 year span, actually.
Keepsakes.
But you wouldn't, the people who knew Faulkner, for the most part, also knew how profound he was.
And so they didn't throw those keepsakes away.
So I would go to various people and acquire from them, not an item, not two or five items, but each time a trove, an archive, if you will, a collection.
that they had unconsciously collected.
If you take 15 or 20 of those in various degrees of quality and breadth, then you have the beginnings of a massive world-class collection.
That's what's here.
There's Clienth Books here and his gathering.
Malcolm Cowley.
On and on.
I could run on and on the list of that.
Moon Mullen.
I went to travel to find him.
Phil Stone.
Myrtle Ramey.
On and on.
We could, wouldn't stop for quite a while if I ran the list.
Here is a little trove, a little collection.
There was a man at Random House, an editor named Robert Linscott.
He was an underling to contemporary of, but really an underling to Saks Cummins, as was Albert Erskine.
Both of them were minor editors.
Saks was premier editor.
Saks edited C.P.
Snow.
He edited Eugene O'Neill, whose best friend he was.
He edited
Faulkner.
Those were his three premier.
He also edited people like Walter Van Tilburg Clark, Dr. Seuss.
I'll tell you in the car driving home how it is that I acquired the Saks Cummins archive right out from under the Firestone Library, precisely because Dorothy had a lot of resentment toward a lot of people, not the least of whom was a Malcolm Cowley.
who borrowed some of those papers to put in the back of one of those books, the Cowley Faulkner file, the Faulkner-Cowley file.
In the back of that, he prints a manuscript of the American Dream or something on privacy.
He went to Doe to borrow some of the manuscripts.
He virtually didn't credit her at all, said very little about Sacks.
She had a big burn on because Blotner virtually didn't write Sacks Cummins into the biography.
She was real pissed.
There's a beautiful letter Ellie shared with her from Dorothy Cummings.
When our letters volume came out, which had a lot of the Sacks Cummings letters, and in our introduction, we treated how crucial Cummings was to partner's career, especially the last part of it.
And she wrote you this beautiful letter thanking you for it, because now Sacks finally had got his view.
He finally had got the recognition.
And when Blotner went back and revised the one volume,
He had to put Cummings in, and then using our letter volume and other materials, so he didn't rewrite that significantly.
Oh, he did.
Significantly.
From what he had done in the first.
So this stuff was going to Firestone?
So, I'll get back to that story.
Don't forget it.
I won't forget it.
Here's a little collection, the Robert Linscott Group.
That's all there was, but that's pretty interesting.
Now, a collector might not have bought this piece, and I'm going to read it to you because the content is scintillating.
It was typed by Faulkner.
Linscott had kept it.
That's the dust jacket.
That's the dust jacket, the first drawing.
I said, no, I'm right on.
Right on.
That's the first conception Faulkner had.
Wow, that's a cross.
Yeah.
A cross, which now appears as the dust jacket on the table.
Isn't that wonderful?
Here's a picture of Faulkner and Robert Linscott.
Yeah, let's take a picture of that, too.
And here is a wonderful little fragment that is not signed by Faulkner, but Linscott, in his hand, put on it, Bill Faulkner.
Faulkner had typed it and thrown it away.
This still didn't get this.
Good.
Thank you.
Listen, anyway, a collector might not have bought this, but this was with the little archive, and I know it was Faulkner's, and furthermore, I know by what he wrote.
And there was this one to Bob Rinscott.
So this is what you call a mini collection.
I like that.
It's a mini collection of five items.
It's one, two, three, four items.
that are souvenirs that Robert Linscott kept.
Who put them together like that?
The book dealer.
Glenn Horowitz had these.
Oh, you got those from what?
Well, these came from Toby Holtzman's collection when he sold it.
When he blew it away, I told you he put it at Michigan and tried to make a big deal about that.
He gave them quantity, and he made this big deal.
He made himself real self-important.
But what he didn't give them was any of the great stuff.
And I bought other great stuff out of that collection, too, including
one of only two known copies of the galley proofs for Absalom Absalom.
Do you spell Linscott's name for me?
I think it's L-I-N-S-C-O-T-T.
We'll have to look it up.
Two Ts?
Yeah, I see.
But so there's Bill and Bob.
There's this wonderful original design for title page.
But now, why doesn't Robert Linscott have more stuff?
Well, because he wasn't close to Faulkner.
He took him home one weekend when he was six.
When Faulkner was alcoholic, they tried to dry him out there at his house.
Which is the kind of assignment you give to a junior editor.
That's right.
Well, Cowley did it once, one weekend.
Linscott did it once.
He was always on the doorstep of the Cumminses.
He virtually lived there for two or three years.
He was up there all the time when he was having terrible times at home.
And listen to this fragment.
Yours received.
My point of view re-publicity piece has not changed.
I still contend that my printed works are in the public domain.
And anyone can bat them around.
But my private life and the photograph face are my own, and I will defend them as such to the end.
I would defend them.
I would defend them as such to the end.
I have deliberately buried myself in this little, lost, almost illiterate town, Oxford.
to keep out of the way so that news people won't notice and remember me.
If, in spite of that, this sort of thing comes down here, I not only won't cooperate, I will probably do whatever I can to impede and frustrate it.
You'd think, with as many people as they seem to be in this country willing to pay any price to get themselves in the public print, that they would let be one insane and eccentric enough not to want to, wouldn't you?
What is that?
This is a piece that he wrote, and this was in regard to Life magazine that was coming down.
I saw this.
Where did I just see this?
You didn't see quite this one.
I think I saw it in your catalog.
Is it in your catalog?
No, I don't think so.
You read another one.
There's one about the Nobel Prize.
that he wrote to Moon Mullins.
Well, people were invading his privacy all the time.
Isn't that a wonderful fragment?
What prompted him to write that, do you think?
Yes, because he found out that they were going to send people... I don't know who he's writing this to, yours received.
It's probably another one like he wrote to Moon Mullins.
When he found out... Random House was probably encouraging that kind of publicity.
But he hated it, and it was at the time he learned Life magazine was going to send a reporter down to do a big article feature on it.
Which he should have been thrilled about, actually.
He didn't like being intruded on.
Yeah, but he wanted to sell books.
We also know now why he treasured his privacy so much, because he had all those affairs and other things going on.
He had a very pragmatic reason for protecting his privacy.
I'm not going to read all these, but I want you to see out of the letters.
We have a great, great collection of letters.
These are new ones that I just acquired.
They came out of Oxford.
They came from his nephew, Jimmy Fulton.
They're full of love.
I contend that these letters... Brother Will.
Yeah, and Brother Will was writing to the son he never had.
He loved Jimmy because Jimmy was virile.
He was a marine fighter pilot.
He was everything that Bill himself had not been.
And I try to get at that in life glimpses, and I even quote this letter.
Yeah, but can I just, before you do that, let me just say, I'm just quoting at random here, but it's on the first paragraph that begins the second page of the letter.
The next milestone is fear.
Sometimes they happen at the same moment.
This means that you fail to pass the foolhardiness milestone and it is too late.
But if the fear is not a result of foolhardiness, then you are all right.
You have learned and are capable of learning.
Oh, isn't that what?
I ought to hear the whole letter.
I know, but that system just pulling out.
This is the best letter.
This is one of the great letters I've ever read.
Yeah, and this is a letter he wrote to Jimmy.
To Jimmy going into the service.
It's not dated, unfortunately.
This one's the early 40s.
He was out in Hollywood.
And I think we can.
We will date it.
It was like 42.
Mm-hmm.
Look at this one.
Good luck, Jim.
Plenty of revs and give them hell.
That's great.
Getting ready to go off into the service.
And here's a better one.
These are a little later.
But holograph, very rare.
Faulkner holograph letters.
Oh, and by the way, Hemingway wrote literally thousands of letters.
40, 50,000 letters.
And you can see why it took him so long.
Faulkner, we don't know a thousand letters that Faulkner wrote.
And we've got about 200 of them here.
And that is unbelievable considering I didn't have shit.
It's 20% of the known... I didn't have shit when I started.
And when I'm talking about it, in 1978, when Bob and I met each other, I did not have a letter.
I did not have one photograph.
I did not have any scripts.
I did not have any wills.
When I met you in 78, I was a book collector.
Because I joined forces with Bob, the scholar,
I learned that the kind of stuff I was going to go collect was going to be the meat of scholarship.
Well, the archival stuff.
Absolutely.
Well, I told him that we see three phases that the collection's gone through.
You know, there was the book collection, and it became a world-class book collection.
But then, as you got into the exhibits and the publishing, then the focus of the emphasis in the collection changed to manuscripts and letters and documents and things that would support the scholarship.
Right.
And now, as we...
the third phase with the Faulkner Center and allowing scholars to use it and so on.
And that's been fun for me to watch the evolution of the collector and the collection into these different phases.
Let me tell you my sense of pride.
And each of the earlier phases continues.
It's not that you, you know, it's a layer you add on.
He's still a book collector.
And we'll still do publishing when we have the Faulkner Center, but you add on another layer.
And where we're going now is we're actually trying to acquire scholarship itself.
Bob and I took a wonderful drive up to Ann Arbor, Michigan to the home of Joe and Yvonne Blotner a year ago and brought back with us something that I had prepared for a year prior to that, the entire archive of perhaps 20,000 letters and notes and manuscripts that went into the making of the seminal William Faulkner biography of Blotner.
We have all that archive here for scholars to use for years, the letter files from John Faulkner.
from Murray Faulkner, from the mistress Joan Williams, from the mistress Elsa Johnson, from people writing all over the country.
It's an incredible archive.
Did you have to trade Wagner for that?
Yes.
$35,000.
I thought it was extremely reasonable under the circumstances.
Most collectors passed on it.
Virginia passed on it.
Virginia passed on that archive.
He couldn't believe it.
I couldn't believe it.
Why would they have passed on something that significant?
I've got letters in there from Murray, from John, you name it.
$35,000 is not a lot of money for that.
It was a lot of money.
Two books?
It was, yeah, two books?
That was the first trade L.D.
worked out as curator.
Yeah.
In his role as a university curator.
Oh, is that right?
What happened?
He traded two books.
Two inscribed books.
Oh, really?
The Blotner Archive.
Did that pain you?
No, it didn't pain me at all, because what we acquired was much more significant.
It all pains me a little bit.
I sold one Malcolm Cowley book, and I might have sold one Phil Stone book.
Well, there was one you were going to show him when to go.
And I didn't find it.
Is that right?
If you caught that a moment ago, he was going to show you a book, but he said, we don't have that one anymore.
That's right.
You caught that, and I caught that.
It bothered me, but not much, and I'll tell you why.
I love the notion of having acquired that archive for scholarship.
Now, what's my feeling right now looking at this letter, holograph letter of Faulkner to his nephew, Jim Faulkner?
I'm so proud that it's here.
I have no pangs that I don't own it physically anymore.
I never look at it with the thought that this is a $3,000 letter.
It doesn't have any meaning for me in that realm.
It never did.
I acquired this group of eight letters.
It was very expensive.
It will cost me one book.
That's how I look at it.
It's worth it.
Fine.
But I don't have any personal sense of either ego or sense of possessiveness.
And I hadn't for the longest time.
This belongs to you, Nick.
It belongs to you, Bob.
And I'm not being histrionic.
It belongs to us who care about literature.
I couldn't give one flaming shit about physically having it in my home.
I never had any of these things in my home.
They weren't fondleable.
I could have had them in my home if I were the fondling type.
the possessive type.
That never drove me.
Well, they didn't even know how big his collection was.
I told you about when he came into this room.
Say that again.
He didn't know how big his collection was when I first met him.
Some of it was at his home.
Some was at his parents' home in St.
Louis.
Some of the more valuable pieces were in the mercantile bank vault.
But he had never seen it all in one place.
And so when we scouted out this room, the possibility of depositing the materials here just to warehouse them to make our work easier,
He walked in here and he looked at this wall over here, which were empty shelves like this.
No doors.
That cabinet was not in the corner.
That was all built.
And so that side looked just like this side.
And so we measured out, and we knew we had to put doors on the cases and all, so we said, Eldie, how much of this space do you need to house the collection?
And he said about half, about half of that wall.
Well, Zink, the librarian, said, we're not going to put doors on just half of it.
We'll put doors on the whole.
Then we moved the collection in, and he kept collecting, and now you see we've spilled over into the Harrison collection.
And we're upstairs with some of it.
We're getting ready to go into this section.
You think at some point Harrison's going to leave the room?
No.
He had never seen the collection all in one place.
He hadn't.
until we moved it into this room.
So it's kind of home now.
And he was amazed.
I think you were amazed that it was as large as it was.
I was amazed.
And that was only half of what he has now.
Now, Carl had a lot.
How much did Carl have that got sold?
He had about half what I have in quantity.
And the bulk of his half were foreign editions and were reprints.
He did not have the quality for the most part.
He probably had a couple hundred items that were absolutely world-class wonderful.
But what Carl did that I admire very much, he was extremely thorough and comprehensive.
If I could have welded one of my dreams early on, and it might not have been his because he was envious of me, but had the two of us been able to mesh our collections, he would have filled in on all the areas I never worked.
I told you earlier on, because of his obsessive nature, he didn't need to buy quality.
He just needed to all the time be acquiring.
That satisfied his needs.
I didn't mind going for months at a time with nothing.
I worked for months at a time to set up acquisitions.
He had a book coming in or packages coming in every week because I used to visit with him.
And he'd get more joy.
He'd get absolutely orgasmic with the thought.
He'd go down and check in his hall.
Is there a package for me today?
Is there a package?
He loved that shit.
And I talked with Margie Cohn.
She told me some of her collectors just loved to come in and buy and have her send them so they could receive a package.
It's like little kids getting gifts.
Well, that's what Carl had in his life.
I didn't need that.
I had a family, I had my occupation, I had my art.
This was really done as a wonderful passion.
And I'll tell you what, it is a beautiful, beautiful passion because I look at letters like this and I'm so very proud that this stuff is here.
This one's a great one.
This one Jimmy wore in his wallet.
And this one was telling people that if Jimmy ever got stranded,
But all I had to do was loan money to Jimmy on William Faulkner, the bank of Oxford.
Well, this is a letter that Jimmy folded and kept in his wallet.
It's from Uncle William, right?
And this is dated 30 July 1943, but he does say...
I love you and I'm proud as hell of you.
Maybe we will see one another in September.
That's the kind of thing.
That's the son he never had.
And that the boy.
And that the kid folded and put in his wallet.
Because this part showed right here.
And that's right.
And that's exactly right.
And that's it.
This little part here with William.
You can borrow money on my account.
Oh, is that what it says?
I didn't read it.
Yeah, that's what it says.
These are already printed in the volumes, right?
No, no, they're not.
Oh, you just got these?
You just got these.
Yeah, there's a lot.
Because I figured I could, you know.
Oh, no, but these are going to come out in the next volume.
All of our books are already outdated.
They need revision because this guy won't quit.
Now, what do you mean you just got these?
These are the ones that you traded the books for.
I just got these.
Like just when?
Two months ago.
Three months ago, maybe.
Look at that.
These are wonderful.
See, he's still collecting.
Yeah.
Tell him about it.
My favorite story.
You haven't given up this bullshit.
You've got to tell him about the De Gaulle manuscript.
I pulled it for you.
Okay, I will.
I'll do that right now.
Let me just show you this one, too.
It's another set.
I just picked this up last year.
How did I get these?
I forgot.
I must have traded something for these, too.
These are absolutely scintillating.
These also came from the nephew, Jimmy.
These are letters?
These came from the nephew, but these came sort of circuitously.
That's off the record.
That little part is going to come out of that typescript, the circuitous part.
Let's just say these are letters, mother letters.
That the nephew had.
Wow.
These are six letters, and they all document, for the most part, one little brief period where Faulkner was going, was he not, to work with Howard Hawks on the land of the pharaohs.
It's really quite fascinating.
Well, here's one.
He's at Random House.
Random House.
Yeah, and he's tapping a letter, Dear Moms.
Dear Moms, I finally got straightened out.
I will stay here until December 1st, finish my novel.
I'll meet Mr. Hawks in Paris, December 1st or 2nd, to stay until the job is finished, which means I will X-mas at home.
We'll be back, I hope, in February.
I can't turn Mr. Hawks down because he has been too good to me.
Besides the $15,000 in expenses, the trip will cost me nothing.
I am well.
I believe the book is a good one.
What book is he talking about?
All the people, they'll like what they've seen of it.
I will write again soon and make all arrangements.
You and Dean will leave before I get back.
I love you.
Here's the scholar again.
You see, if you know from studying Faulkner's life that Estelle was always jealous of Faulkner's mother because every afternoon he'd walk up the street and visit his mother.
And often when Estelle even was ill, Faulkner seemed to be more concerned about his mother than he was his wife.
And so if you know that Faulkner's relationship to his mother
created a problem in his marriage.
And then you have an opportunity here to get some letters from Faulkner to that mother.
And you see how all that ties together.
And so it's very, very exciting because just the salutation on their dear mom says a lot about how Faulkner felt.
And then he's writing with such detail, filling her in on all his little details, even like his bowel movements almost.
And you know, he didn't do that to anybody else.
And he wasn't writing during some of his period, but he wasn't writing as well.
sending stuff to the Random House.
He was real frugal.
And that's another little biograph.
Cairo, stationary.
I read an article recently.
This is airmail, why not, right?
Mina House is considered one of the great hotels in the world.
I was just looking at a book when I was in New York about great hotels, and it had the Mina House in there, right on the Nile, by the pyramids.
They stayed in real class, you know.
That's what Hawke should do for you.
Well, that's what he did, too.
I just saw that and thought about that.
I was going to tell you that.
You just got these, right?
I got those last year, about a year and a half.
And these are... These are incredible.
These are for Faulkner scholars, for Faulkner collectors.
I mean, to get a trove like that, that's a little trove of six.
That's a little trove of eight.
All of a sudden, you turn around and you've got a world-class collection if you can work out enough of that.
But now, I won't tell you that a little bit of the collection didn't come from dealers.
I had some help.
The major help actually came from one scintillating dealer, Glenn Horowitz.
He is the one I told you that I admire most.
He's the only dealer I really admire.
I loved Margie.
But I loved her because I had sentimental attachments to that.
She's the one that really got me going on Faulkner.
Not Henry Wenning.
She really did.
But I admire Glenn because he's gritty.
Because he gets right in there.
Because he travels.
He's been all over the world.
He's been to visit...
The Thomas Mann estate in Switzerland.
He's traveled to England.
He's bought collections out of there, all over from people.
He's traveled to Hawaii to acquire Leonie Dell's collection of Henry James.
I mean, Glenn has done it the way I've done it.
He's done it as a business.
But I admire him, and he has been the one to ferret out some of this stuff now.
And I could tell you tales about how he could ferret some stuff out that I opened up, and I couldn't get it because I wasn't trusted by a few people, and ironically, he, the dealer, was.
And so we did a triangulation by which I could get the materials.
And I'm not saying a collusion or that there was anything untoward about it, but rather there were times when I...
had to become, as it were, my own intermediary.
I had to send someone on to a dealer to get it to me.
Some people just didn't watch.
Well, see, I find residences like this.
I find a cache of letters between Henry Huntington and Clarence Brigham that nobody knows about the American Anthropocene Society.
And lo and behold, Huntington was using Brigham to buy books in Europe.
And the reason was, they just didn't want to sell anyone at Huntington.
They were pissed off.
He was buying up everything.
And they just wouldn't sell.
Or if you bought, they were going to jack the prices up.
So good old Clarence, who everybody respected, and I got the letters.
This is great stuff.
This is unpublished stuff.
Absolutely cherry, unpublished letters.
And I almost died.
They said, you can only copy 20 letters a day.
I said, Sidney, you've got to copy all.
I can't leave you a little piece of letters.
This is my position.
You can go back tomorrow.
I said, they may not be here tomorrow.
You have a feeling, right?
That's good stuff.
What I'm suggesting is that sometimes you have to do things.
This is something that still worries me.
I don't think that we've got these ordered in Xeroxes, do we?
Can I take a break and hit the head for about five seconds?
Do we have these things?
We're all hand-typed by fault, right?
Originals.
Don't get them out of order.
We're not in order here.
We don't have, I'm not sure we have a copy of this.
These are the order.
This is the order in which.
So what is it?
This was one of the sets that I found in Buzz Becerides' desk.
Well, this is out of California.
This is the DeGaulle story that Faulkner had banged out.
This is the celebrated story.
You were ready to leave and the desk wouldn't open or something like that.
And I found those manuscripts.
And these were absolutely sensational.
I found them in the last minutes before I was going to leave.
Here's another set of them.
Look at this thing.
Look at this stuff.
Why didn't he number them?
No, no, don't, don't.
No, no, no, I'm not shuffling them, but did he number them?
They numbered because they were in and out.
They were outtakes and inversions.
We haven't worked on this.
Why the hell didn't he number them, huh?
He numbered them, but he didn't care about what came after him.
This was a lot of stuff.
Oh, wonderful stuff.
Have you done anything to treat this paper?
No, we're going to have to do that.
You really should.
This looks like copy paper.
It's coming off, it is.
That's in line to be done.
That is copy paper, and it's okay right now.
It's fairly stable, but I don't see as much of it as I kid.
I don't want to handle any more of it.
Yeah.
It's a great trope.
This was a great trope.
But this is what we're talking here.
We're handling the buzz.
This is the DeGaulle story.
This was Faulkner's first solo flight for Warner Brothers.
And when he went out in June of 42, this was his first assignment for Robert Faulkner.
to create an original screenplay called The De Gaulle Story.
It has subsequently been published by us, by University Press in Mississippi, the screenplay, actually a couple of the screenplay versions.
Galimar in Paris, Edicione's Galimar, has published it in translation.
It is now being turned in over there to a television docudrama with an adaptation script.
It is being produced this month.
Ghalimar is now contracting with us.
This is the acquisition of this is what prompted a pretty good-sized New York Times piece, I think.
Indeed it did.
And that's what prompted me to call you for the first time.
Yes, that's right.
And then it, that's right.
McDowell.
Ed McDowell.
Ed McDowell, that's right.
And then subsequently, we had a huge article in Loexpress.
in Paris.
They were more excited about the find than anybody.
This was a find, all right.
Bees had been sitting there for 40 some odd years.
By the time I got out to Buzz's house, Buzz had no idea they were out there, that they were in that desk.
Spelled Buzz's last name from my text.
His name is Bezzerides.
He's Armenian.
And it is spelled B-E-Z-Z-E-R-I-D-E-S.
Two Zs.
Yeah.
Buzz worked at Warner Brothers, and I don't want to go into that whole story.
No, no, it's been written.
I can get it.
But these were wonderful, and we have all kinds of other spectacular biographical documents.
I don't know if Bob found any of those to show.
How about some of those things that we did show glass, like that folio thing and stuff like that.
There's so much in here.
Let's show you just a little more and then we'll probably stop because it really will get meaningless.
I think I've got it.
It's an overload.
Yeah.
Well, it's good.
Fun for me.
Sometimes people ask me about the significance of this collection in terms of the relationship with the other, like Virginia or Texas or Mississippi, because there are four, essentially four major academic repositories for faulty material.
Now, as a book collection, this is better than all the others put together.
It's the finest Faulkner book collection to work.
In terms of the 1940s Warner Brothers movie scripts, it's the best.
It has all of the 40s Warner Brothers except The Big Sleep, which got sold off before L.D.
acquired the material.
That's the only one that's missing.
It has Faulkner's complete, with the exception of The Big Sleep, it's got all of the work that Faulkner did for Warner Brothers in the 1940s.
Nobody else has that.
In letters, the Phil Stone letters and the Estelle Faulkner letters are unique to this collection.
Nobody has those.
Of course, they don't have the Faulkner letters that are here are unique too, but in addition to, there are other places that have a lot of Faulkner letters, but this has the Phil Stone letters, this has Estelle Faulkner's letters.
What are some other areas, L.D., where it's unique?
I mean, there's some overlapping in all these collections, too, but like manuscripts.
Well, you got some biographical things here.
Right, the wills.
The wills are... I had that treated, and I'm going to have all those pages you said de-acidified.
I'm going to start working on each of those.
I had that one treated, so it'll last.
That is a one-of-a-kind, it's the only known manuscript of Faulkner's Legion of Honor speech.
Yes, there are so many unique items in this.
And it's in French.
Yes, it's in French.
It was the way Faulkner read it.
Faulkner gave this to Sachs comments and he inscribed it for him.
Yeah, that's great.
He gave the speech and then he had it and then he gave it to Sachs as a momentum.
This is what he read.
Un homme libre, right?
A free man.
And it's not great French either, but it's what he wrote himself.
Not bad.
Not bad is right.
They understood what he was saying, right?
The document is wonderful.
Yeah, they understood.
It's a wonderful document.
Here's a wonderful letter I found.
It was at Victoria's in one of her boxes.
My friend Victoria, this was her mother.
And this was when he went.
He was trying to get a new publisher in 35.
Well, look how wonderful.
Wonderful, wonderful.
Isn't that gorgeous?
This is Victoria Stockwell.
That's his daughter.
Box 170, Oxford, Mississippi.
I love it that they kept one of these things.
Oh, tell me.
Bob, I can't stand this.
I'm having such fun going through this.
I'm having such fun going through this shit, I can't even believe it.
Dear sister.
Nobody does this for classes from time to time, but...
I spent a semester in London last year, and then he was setting up his time in his press operation, so we did go about a year without doing much of this.
We do get him down as often as we can.
Students and groups to do exhibits.
I'm going to be down every second week now, too, and I'm going to go at one of the things I intend to do with this, of course, is get it ordered.
You have no idea how many manuscripts are in there by looking at that.
It looks like just two cases full of manuscripts.
Shit, there are thousands of pages.
I never stopped to count.
That's another thing I met in the collectors I met.
They could tell me how many feet, linear feet of shelving they had.
They could tell me how many pages, how many books.
That kind of stuff is obsession in the wrong direction.
The famous Faulkner collector, Linton Massey.
Bob and I found in one of our letters that he wrote to someone, he was bragging.
At that time, he had 35 linear feet of Faulkner on my shelves.
That, to me, is the wrong attitude, folks.
There's something really gross about that.
There's some of that here, too.
That same obsession.
It's with quantity and not quality.
Ultimately, you've got to be... This was an early thing that came from Vance Carter Broach.
The black bridge swung in the white rose tree.
Faulkner typed it out.
Faulkner put the little hand note.
That's a poem.
He's writing to Aunt Bama.
It's a three stanza poem.
Each stanza is about three.
There are two known copies of this that exist.
Two known copies.
One's at Texas in a burnt form.
I think I've seen it.
I saw it.
I handled it.
Burnt fragment.
This is the second copy.
Look at this wonderful little coda in Faulkner's hand.
Mrs. Oldham of Oxford, who has musical talent, is composing music for this one.
Who is Mrs. Oldham?
Well, she's his wife-to-be's mother.
Estelle Oldham.
This was Estelle Oldham's mother, Lida.
And this was a note he had written when he sent this poem to his beloved Aunt Bama.
And so Bama bequeathed this to Vance.
So I acquired that.
How did the one that Texas has get burned?
Here's more.
Here are horns that are ones of a kind.
These are versions of Bama.